[CDS-106431] Feature: K8s Diff Step (#9868)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-delivery/deploy-srv-diff-platforms/kubernetes/kubernetes-executions/k8s-diff-step.md

---

> title: Perform a Kubernetes Difference Check

Reviewer: I think we should start naming the titles of docs like these the step name. So something like, "K8s Diff Step" or "Kubernetes Diff Step"

And then our description should describe the action. Like "perform a K8s diff check" or what you have written already. 
I think this makes our docs better: easier to navigate and simpler to parse/read

description: This topic describes how to compare the current live state deployed Kubernetes resources with the changes defined in a YAML.
sidebar_position: 10
---

## Overview

Use the kubectl diff command to compare the current live state of deployed Kubernetes resources with changes defined in a YAML file. This preview helps catch unintended modifications and prevent misconfigurations before deployment.

The command used in this step is: `kubectl diff -f <file.yaml>`

:::note
This feature is behind the feature flag `CDS_K8S_DIFF_STEP_SUPPORT`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

## Pre-requisites

You must have the **diffutils** package installed on your system to use the `kubectl diff` command. This package provides the necessary utilities for comparing file differences.

> ## When and Where to Use the K8s Diff Step

Reviewer: Our style guide recommends we lower case for section headers other than the first word.

* [Policy Enforcement](/docs/platform/governance/policy-as-code/harness-governance-overview)

<details>
<summary>K8s Diff Step YAML Sample</summary>

```yaml
- step:
    type: K8sDiff
    name: K8sDiff
    identifier: K8sDiff
    spec: {}
    timeout: 10m
```
</details>

## Execution

This is how the execution logs would look like after executing the K8s Diff step.

<div align="center">
  <DocImage path={require('./static/k8s-diff-3.png')} width="60%" height="60%" title="Click to view full size image" />
</div>

You can also find the difference in the output of the step:

<div align="center">
  <DocImage path={require('./static/k8s-diff-4.png')} width="60%" height="60%" title="Click to view full size image" />
</div>

## Limitations

- The `kubectl diff` command requires **server-side Apply**, which is available in Kubernetes version 1.18 and above.

- `kubectl diff` may not work correctly with third-party **Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs)**, as they are not always fully supported by the diff command.

- The command **does not display changes for secrets**, due to security restrictions designed to protect sensitive data.

## K8s Diff Step Sample

> To see an example of how to deployK8s Diff Step using Harness, visit the [Harness Community Repository](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/tree/master/kubernetes-steps/diff-step).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see an example of how to use the K8s Diff Step visit the [Harness Community Repository](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/tree/master/kubernetes-steps/diff-step).
```
